The Joe Rogan experience.
Nobody know thought I was gonna lose, except for one guy,
one guy actually said I can beat him, but he didn't tell me.
He forgot to tell me <laugh> so I didn't take him for granted.
I took him for granted. And so I always went through routines, warming up,
getting ready, mental.
We weigh in five hours before a match from then on you ate and drank a little
bit and then focus, focus, rest, focus, focus.
I was doing interviews with wide world sport,
right during the national finals. And I wasn't the talker.
Like I, I could talk pretty good now because I learned to talk.
But at that time off the mat, I couldn't talk to anybody.
And so when they put a mic in front of me and they wanted to know about,
Hey, can you just say this? Say, Hey, I'm Dan Gable.
Come watch me next week on wide world of sport.
As I finish my career, 180 2 and oh,
and I hadn't wrestled the match yet. And so I,
I was supposed to say that, but do you think I could say that? Hell no,
I couldn't say that I kept stutter not saying it. And they kept redoing it.
So finally, after about 15 takes, they wrote it a out on big cards.
And so I took about seven takes with that one.
I think I got it done in about 22 takes, but then I, when I got it done,
it wasn't good either. They just finally said, oh, that's good enough.
Get outta here. So I turned I'm on deck,
I'm on deck. So they already went through the 1 18 1 26, 1 34, and I was 1 42,
you at that time. So 1 34 is just, uh, wrestling.
And I always warmed up for, you know, a good 45 minutes to an hour.
So I hit a quick, warm up and went out in that match. And I,
and I didn't realize there was gonna somebody that actually thought they could
beat me. <laugh> you know, and even though before I always did the routine,
I went through it,
but I'll tell you what you skip once you're vulnerable for only time in my life,
that within a minute into the match,
I could hear the crowd a minute into the match.
I could feel how I felt.
And I was feeling tired and weak. I mean,
I never knew how you felt in a rusty match until the match was over.
And once it was over. Yeah, sometimes I felt good,
but sometimes I felt weak and tired,
but I didn't show it because I didn't think about it. I didn't know it,
but the one time he didn't prepare and the guy thinking that he could go with
you. I, and he could, you know, you,
you, you take on everything. So you take on way more than just your opponent.
And so I talked myself into wrestling after minute one,
I kept saying, I gotta, I gotta keep going. I gotta keep working hard.
And so I got a early lead, just a quick first take down,
but I kept feeling how tired I was and I kept hearing the crowd.
Why do you think you were so tired? Cause I didn't warm up.
I was doing talking. I was not focusing on my match and had concent,
no warmup had that much of an effect on your conditioning. I used to be a,
a pretty well, even today, as you get older, you notice how,
if you don't warm up and you hit something really hard, you get,
you get exhausted. Now it's probably kind of like that. Uh,
usually what I did for warmups is probably with within a half hour of my
match, I would get match heartbeat,
rate up and go for three or four minutes that way.
So not, no one get real tired,
but then after that you'd probably have a little drink and get ready to go.
What would you, what would you do for a warmup? You had a very specific routine,
pretty much, pretty much, um, you know,
stretching and jogging and then actually wrestling,
actually wrestling pretty hard and uh, to, to where you would actually sweating.
Good. And, and then, uh,
I actually got to the point where if I had a lot of time before my match,
I would actually go take another the shower. But usually when you're with the,
the fourth guy out or something, you just kind of stayed loose,
but you didn't really. And then right before your match again,
you might get your heart rate up again to, uh,
cuz your heart rate didn't really go down below a hundred probably and you
needed, and in a wrestling match, you was probably going up to 170, 180,
you know, stuff like that. And,
but you wanted to have your heart were rate up to your ma that match pay heart
rate for not seven or eight minutes, cuz that, you know,
you're gonna be not gonna recover quick enough. You still be tired.
You wanna be tired.
So you'd get it up there and spike it up and down for two or three minutes.
And it's hitting some really good execution of wrestling holds.
We do hand fighting a lot of hand fighting and that hand fighting can really,
uh, can get that heart rate up and pushing and shoving and hitting some, uh,
live techniques where the guy was letting you do it,
but you're doing it at live pace. And you do some sprints and do some tumbling,
gymnastics tumbling, but in this match, no warm up at all.
When I got done with the 22nd take of the, of the, of the, of the, uh,
and I was the, I had that match to warm up. So I,
I probably had 10 minutes instead of, uh, my normal 45 minutes or so,
but I thought I was still ready and,
but it was something outta my control actually. And it took, took me over,
but I did talk my way into, uh, cuz I got I ahead.
But then I got real far behind.
I mean I was behind by six points and then I got ahead by
uh, two or three points and that was right towards the end of the match.
And then there was a flurry could have went either way,
but the referee went his way and that's the way it is. I mean,
it's just, it's just that's calls.
Does that haunt you to this.
Day? Oh, of course it haunts me, but guess what?
I needed that loss.
I really did that loss took me to unbelievable Heights that I
would've never had without that loss.
What's unbelievable is if you ask the guy that beat me, Larry Owings,
he said, if I had to do it over again,
I might have lost that match on purpose or not even on,
on purpose just because I didn't know how to handle it.
I wanted to be an Olympic champion. I wanted to be a world champion,
but when I won that match, there was so much hype.
I didn't know how to handle it.
He said even broke up my marriage <laugh> he was married.
I guess that's what he claimed.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.